  My game is called Army vs. Zombies. It's a game where you play as the president of the U.S. in a universe where there was a zombie outbreak and most of the us population are gone. The White House is the last stand for you, your assistant and your defenders. Most of the zombies were wiped out over time, but they evolved to a point where they know what they need to do to survive a little bit longer, and that is by getting to you! You, as the president, have to defend yourself in this last stand against the zombies.

  You have to place defenders on the grid and they will shoot automatically towards where the zombies are coming from. There is one type of defender becuase those are the only ones left, the secret service, and they will need money to get the resources needed for the job.

  I used HTML (HTML canvas), CSS, and JavaScript, the game is mainly created with JavaScript manipulating HTML canvas

  I built my game by first initiallizing some global variables I needed to use throughout the project such as empty arrays for defenders, enemies, and the cells of the grid itself. I then initialized all the classes I need for the project as well. A cell class for the grid, a defender class for all of the defenders I'm going to use, all of the enemies, the final boss, and even the projectiles. I then proceeded to create the grid I'm using for my game on the canvas. I first started by making the size of the canvas by setting the canvas width and the height and the size of my cells. I then added a function to detect collision, this was the hardest part of my code so I ended up getting it off the internet (Franks Laboratory on Youtube) and even then learning how the function works and how it woul interact with my code was on a whole other world of challenging so I had to add and change my classes a little to get it to work. then i had to learn how to actually animate the game to print all the cells (Franks Laboratory on Youtube) and animate everything else in the game.

  I then started to make function of the different logic I needed because I didn't want to put all of my code in the animate recursive function, it would have all been a jumbled up mess. First is a function that would create all of the cells to create the grid of the game itself and then a function that would print the cells of the grid have it show in the document. I then added a mousemove event listener to the canvas element itself to track where the mouse was at all times and store its X and Y values into a variable. I then added a click event listener to use those tracked X and Y mouse coordinates to round it to multiples of 100 (respective to the cell size) by subtracting the remainder from the tracked mouse coordinates from the mouse coordinate and setting that value to an new X and Y value for that click and placing a defender at that new coordinate value. After that I made 2 functions, a function to make enemies and a fucntion to detect a collision between a defender and an enemy. In the former function I declared a new variable enemyY and set the value of it to a random number between 100 and 400, the top of the second row of cells and the top of the last row of cells. I then used that variable to push a new enemy object to the empty enemies array at a random position, then use a for loop to cycle through the array and use the methods in the class to daw the enemy and allow the enemy to move. In the latter function, I used to two for loops, one after the other to cycle through the defenders array and the enemies array, I used an if statement to check if there was a defender at the index, if there was an enemy at the index, and if the there was collision between an enemy between and the defender at that same index. The collision function checks if the edges of the parameters touch each other and return true if they do. If the all the. conditions are true, subtract the health from the defender and stop the enemies movement.

  In the rest of the functions the logic is the same just using different objects and differen parameters. My last function is a recursive function called animate which allows animation to occur in the first place. If i call my previously mad functions and allow the function to call itself in the built in JavaScript method "requestAnimationFrame(animate)" the function will call itself repeatedly and continue while the if condition is met.

  Link to my game: https://amamat48.github.io/Tower-Defense-Game/

    Thank You to My instructors, Tishana, Kasper, and Dylan for helping me reconfigure my code so it would actually work, also thank you to Yonas, Ashley, Jenna, Drew, and everybody else that helped me that i can't think of at the moment that also did their best in trying to help me change and reconfigure my code to make it work. And finally thank you to Franks Laboratory on Youtube for giving me the collision detection function and giving me the idea of storing the mouse coordinates in variables and altering those coordinates to match up with the grid
